========================================================
UXL Foundation Safety Critital SIG Meeting 29th May 2024
========================================================

Attendees

* Verena Beckham (Codeplay) Chairperson
* Melissa Aranzamendez (Linux Foundation)
* Rod Burns (Codeplay)
* Ronan Keryell (AMD)
* Adam Konopa (Intellias)
* Erik Tomusk (Codeplay)
* Shravan (Cadence)
* Michael Wong (Codeplay)
* Chungfan Yang (Fixstars)

Agenda

* UXL Foundation proccesses update
* DPC++ upstreaming to LLVM
* Presentation by Verena: Integration of UXL Projects into SC Systems - Tasks


General
-------

Verena presented a slide deck (in the 'presentations' folder).

Discussion
----------------------

What could be reasonably be performed by companies internally and what could be made open-source?

* Compiler qualification could well be done open-source (see Ferrocene example).
* Runtime certification a lot of overhead, so perhaps less likely to be open-sourced.
* Can still work on integration into SC system, safety argument, testing collaboratively.
* Libraries could easily be ported to SYCL SC openly and perhaps code improvements be upstreamed as well.

Could we work with an RTOS provider to demo an integration?

* How to provide value to the RTOS provider? A press release?
* Could work if a SIG member had a requirement to integrate with a chosen RTOS.

Next steps for the SIG
----------------------

Please contact Verena with any proposals or requests.
Verena will reach out to related groups to see if someone could present on similar open-source efforts, e.g. ELISA, Ferrocene, Xen hypervisor team.
