=======================================================
UXL Foundation Steering Committee Meeting 11th Jan 2024
=======================================================

Attendees

* Rod Burns (Codeplay) Chairperson
* Robert Cohn (Intel)
* Penporn Koanakatool (Google)
* Ramesh Radhakrishnan (VMware)
* Andrew Wafaa (Arm)
* Dave Murray (Imagination)
* Hanwoong Jung (Samsung)
* Jory Burson (Linux Foundation)
* Alison Richards (Intel)

Agenda

* Marketing materials
* Open Source Working Group co-chair
* UXL Foundation project audit
* Event and community outreach strategy

General
-------

* The first Fujitsu contribution to oneDAL was made this week adding 
  Arm CPU target
* The pins and pens have been ordered and a web order portal is being 
  set up
* New members have joined - Axelera, Market Potential
* The first Safety Critical SIG meeting is next week
* Slack channels are set up for all groups now

Marketing Materials
-------------------

It was agreed that the Steering member reps would receive clothing with 
the logo. Jory will coordinate the design and logistics.

Open Source Working Group co-chair
----------------------------------

It has been previously discussed that the Working Groups should probably 
appoint co-chairs but nothing had been done yet. 
It was decided since Andy is travelling next week that a co-chair 
would be appointed by the Steering Committee. John Melanakos will take 
on this role.
John was the CEO of the company behind the open source Arrayfire cross 
vendor library and was previously considered for the chair role in the 
group during.

UXL Foundation Project Audit
----------------------------

Rod shared the results of an audit he did based on a health checklist 
of best practices for open source projects. This looks at things like 
licensing, public communication and decision making.
The results uncover some changes that are strongly recommended in 
order to ensure the projects are set up for community contribution.
The results have been shared with the Working Group leaders and will 
be used as a public dashboard through the year to track improvements 
to the projects.

It was agreed this is a good way to track project progress towards 
open source best practices.

Robert stated that there are individuals who would like to become 
maintainers for parts of the projects but this is not yet possible 
due to some of the ways the projects operate. Build infrastructure 
is definitely something that should be a priority for members to 
work on.

Attendees were requested to find out about the potential for their 
organisation providing build infrastructure. Rod has created issues 
to track these requests for Arm, VMware, Intel, Google.


