======================================================
UXL Foundation Steering Committee Meeting 25 June 2025
======================================================

Attendees (in person)

* Rod Burns, Chair (Codeplay Software)
* Chris Reed (GE HealthCare)
* Megan Knight (Arm)
* Andy Wafaa (Arm)
* Manuj Sabharwal (Qualcomm)
* Jory Burson (Linux Foundation)

Attendees (virtual)

* Penporn Koanantakool (Google)
* Alison Richards (Intel)
* Melissa Aranzamendez (Linux Foundation)
* Priyanka Sharma (Fujitsu) partial attendance

Open Source Summit
==================

This was the first face to face Steering Committee meeting hosted at the Open Source Summit, Denver.

UXL Mini Summit
===============
The team discussed preparations for the upcoming Mini summit at the Open Source Summit event including reviewing the agenda and slides. 
The recordings of the presentations is scheduled to be available on the UXL YouTube channel within 2 weeks.

The group agreed to explore new initiatives like an ML IR route and velocity bench, while also considering the development of a dev summit. 

Review of Objectives and Progress
=================================

The group reviewed the foundation's progress and challenges in achieving its goals for the first half of the year.
Rod highlighted that while they are on track for some objectives, such as growing membership and increasing contributions, 
they have faced setbacks in others, like the target to acquire new Steering members. The team discussed strategies to 
improve event presence, increase member presentations, and encourage more member-published content. They also agreed to addapt some 
measures for the second half of the year.

A summary of the objectives for the first half of the year are as follows:

.. list-table:: H1 2025
   :widths: 25 25 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Objective
     - Full year target
     - H1 result
   * - Grow UXL Membership : New Steering Members
     - 2
     - 0
   * - Grow UXL Membership : New Other Members
     - 12
     - 6
   * - Grow UXL Membership : New Alliances
     - 5
     - 2
   * - Grow Awareness/Usage : UXL presentations at events
     - 12
     - 9
   * - Grow Awareness/Usage : Member exhibitors
     - 6
     - 7
   * - Grow Awareness/Usage : UXL event satisfaction score
     - 3/5
     - 4.5/5
   * - Grow Awareness/Usage : Blogs/Articles Published by UXL
     - 8
     - 5
   * - Grow Awareness/Usage : UXL Articles published by UXL members
     - 18
     - 5
   * - Grow Contributions : New Project Contributions from new orgs
     - 2
     - 0 (Objective to be amended for H2)
   * - Grow Contributions : Unique orgs contributing
     - 5
     - 6
   * - Grow Contributions : Unique orgs RFC feedback
     - 10
     - 4
   * - Grow Contributions : Public CI Machines
     - 5
     - New runners available (Objective to be amended for H2)
   * - Foundation Health : Number attendees at meetings growing
     - Attendance growing
     - Steady attendance : To be updated to attrition and number orgs
   * - Foundation Health : Number work packages growing
     - Number of work packages growing
     - Not growing as focused on existing jobs (to be updated to progress of work packages)
   * - Foundation Health : Number unique orgs contributing growing
     - To be updated to measure adoption better
     - Growing

Measuring Open-Source Project Adoption
======================================

Rod discussed challenges in measuring adoption and usage of the UXL projects.
He noted that traditional metrics like stars and forks may not indicate adoption accurately, and suggested exploring GitHub's traffic data and 
API for search to track project usage. 
Rod also touched on the difficulty of measuring RFC (Request for Comments) feedback by organizations due to the manual nature of this.
He also mentioned that some organizations have their own forks of oneDNN and has been working on whether they can contribute to the upstream project. 
Rod concluded by discussing potential improvements to the RFC process, such as setting up a mailing list to increase discoverability of RFCs.

The objective targets for the second half of the year will be adapted to address some of the issues identified during the H1 review.
The team agreed to focus on tracking productivity and attrition rates in meetings, with Rod planning to request this data from the LFX team. They also 
discussed potential topics for future discussions, including learning resources, technical areas, and project help scorecards.

H2 2025 Planning
================

The group discussed plans for the second half of the year.

The team discussed potential events for the second half of the year, including a PyTorch conference and Supercomputing conference, 
with a focus on AI-related activities to attract relevant audiences. They explored options for learning resources, such as editing 
existing project videos, collaborating with an existing learning platform, or hosting courses on the Linux Foundation's platform. 
The group also considered organizing a reception at the PyTorch or Supercomputing conferences.

There was a discussion about how to reach audiences in embedded use cases, with various suggestions such as ensuring the projects are 
OS agnostic, packaging is available through the likes of pip and Conda amongst others. The most important thing was that projects can 
be easily built from open source for different OS versions and platforms.

Rod discussed how the UXL budget had included an allowance to develop educational resources, and previously the group has agreed it is 
important that this is easily available to developers. A work package should be established to manage the implementation of this with 
existing members and/or an external organization.

Open Source Release and CI
==========================

Rod explained the current process of Intel's internal releases and the need to align with public repositories for better collaboration 
and testing. The team discussed the importance of having sufficient CI infrastructure to support public testing and releases, with 
some recommending direct hosting over cloud-based solutions due to cost concerns. The conversation also touched on the potential for 
co-hosting scenarios and the need for fixed-cost hosting solutions to manage expenses effectively.

UXL Foundation Funding
======================

The group discussed the foundation's financial independence and potential strategies to increase dues to cover operational costs, such 
as CI infrastructure and marketing resources. The group agreed to bring this topic to the committee during the second half of the year, 
bringing together the required budget for items like CI.

Developer Summit Planning Discussion
====================================

The team discussed plans for a DevSummit to be held on the 17th September and a potential half-day in-person summit in Bangalore. They 
agreed to bring the virtual summit discussion to the next SC meeting, while planning to have a separate call to discuss logistics for 
the Bangalore event, which would require local coordination.
